>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, AUGUST 1: THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT'S STUNNING
INVESTIGATION OF DISCRIMINATION
AGAINST BLACK CHILDREN IN THE
ST. LOUIS FAMILY COURT SYSTEM;
AND CANDIDATES COLLECTING
MASSIVE AMOUNTS OF FACEBOOK DATA
ON INDIVIDUAL VOTERS; AND IN OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, HOME OR
HOTEL?
A NEW BATTLE IN THE SHARING
ECONOMY OVER AIRBNB.
SO, WE'RE SITTING IN AN ILLEGAL
HOTEL ROOM, ACCORDING TO THE
STATE SENATOR.
>> (LAUGHS)
YES, I HAVE A DIFFERENCE OF
OPINION WITH HER, FOR SURE.
IT'S REALLY HARD FOR ME TO FEEL
LIKE MY HOME IS A HOTEL.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS IN
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
WE BEGIN WITH A SCATHING FEDERAL
REPORT ON THE ST. LOUIS COUNTY
JUVENILE JUSTICE SYSTEM.
THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
SAYS THE COUNTY DISCRIMINATES
AGAINST BLACK CHILDREN, TREATING
THEM MORE HARSHLY THAN WHITE
CHILDREN "BECAUSE OF THEIR
RACE."
ACCORDING TO THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT'S CIVIL RIGHTS
DIVISION, BLACK CHILDREN IN ST.
LOUIS COUNTY ARE 1.5 TIMES MORE
LIKELY THAN WHITE CHILDREN TO
END UP IN FAMILY COURT IN THE
FIRST PLACE.
BLACK CHILDREN ARE 2.5 TIMES
MORE LIKELY THAN WHITES TO BE
DETAINED BEFORE THEIR TRIAL,
AND, IF CONVICTED, THEY ARE MORE
THAN 2.5 TIMES AS LIKELY TO BE
HELD IN CUSTODY AFTER TRIAL.
THE REPORT ALSO FOUND INADEQUATE
REPRESENTATION FOR CHILDREN FROM
LOW-INCOME FAMILIES NO MATTER
WHAT RACE IN ST. LOUIS COUNTY,
WHERE ONE JUVENILE PUBLIC
DEFENDER HANDLED 394 CASES LAST
YEAR.
THE INVESTIGATION BEGAN IN 2013,
NINE MONTHS BEFORE THE SHOOTING
OF MICHAEL BROWN IN FERGUSON,
MISSOURI, WHICH IS IN ST. LOUIS
COUNTY.
IN MARCH, THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
ISSUED A SIMILARLY CRITICAL
REPORT ABOUT DISPARATE RACIAL
TREATMENT BY THE FERGUSON POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
YAMICHE ALCINDOR IS REPORTING ON
THIS STORY FOR "U.S.A. TODAY,"
AND SHE JOINS ME NOW FROM ST.
LOUIS.
SO THIS WAS A FAIRLY
COMPREHENSIVE DIVE THAT THE
D.O.J. TOOK.
I MEAN, THEY LOOKED AT MORE THAN
30,000 CASES OVER A THREE-YEAR
PERIOD TO COME UP WITH THESE
CONCLUSIONS.
>> THEY DID.
THEY REALLY TOOK THEIR TIME
LOOKING AT THIS COURT SYSTEM
BECAUSE I THINK THEY REALLY
WANTED TO GO IN AND TALK TO THE
PEOPLE.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE REPORT THEY
INTERVIEWED JUDGES.
THEY INTERVIEWED PUBLIC
DEFENDERS.
THEY INTERVIEWED PRIVATE
ATTORNEYS.
THEY EVEN INTERVIEWED THE
PARENTS OF THESE KIDS WHO THEY
SAY RIGHTS WERE BEING VIOLATED.
THEY DID A VERY DEEP DIVE AND
TOOK THEIR TIME AND THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT SHOWED BLACK
CHILDREN WERE REALLY NOT BEING
TREATED FAIRLY, AND CHILDREN,
REGARDLESS OF THEIR RACE, THEIR
RIGHTS WERE REALLY BEING
VIOLATED.
>> Sreenivasan: RIGHT, THOSE
RIGHTS INCLUDING ONES NOT TO
INCRIMINATE YOURSELF.
IT SEEMED THE DIVERSIONARY
PROGRAMS WERE CONTINGENT ON THE
FACT, ADMIT GUILT AND YOU WON'T
HAVE TO COME INTO THE SYSTEM.
>> EXACTLY.
AND EVEN THOUGH IT HAPPENED NINE
MONTHS BEFORE MICHAEL BROWN WAS
SHOT AND ALL THE UNREST THAT
HAPPENED IN FERGUSON, THIS
REALLY CALLS INTO QUESTION KIND
OF HOW JUSTICE IS DEALT OUT IN
THE ST. LOUIS AREA, AND REALLY,
IN SOME WAYS, MAKES PEEMS REALLY
THINK ABOUT HOW OUR STUDENTS AND
HOW OUR KIDS, I SHOULD SAY, ARE
REALLY BEING TREATED IN THIS
AREA.
ARE THEIR RIGHTS BEING PROTECTED
BY THE PEOPLE YOU WOULD HOPE
WOULD PROTECT THEM.
YOU WOULD THINK A JUDGE, A
PUBLIC DEFENDER, THE PEOPLE IN
THESE CHILDREN'S LIVES DURING
THE MOST DIFFICULT TIMES IN
THEIR LIVES WOULD HAVE THEIR
BEST INTEREST IN MIND BUT THE
JUSTICE DEPARMENT IS SAYING THAT
JUST WASN'T THE CASE.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THEY ALSO
FOUND A LACK OF UNIFORMITY AND
ANY SORT OF STANDARD EVEN
DETERMINING SOMETHING AS SIMPLE
AS ARE YOU POOR ENOUGH THAT YOU
SHOULD GET THIS PUBLIC DEFENDER
OR NOT?
>> THAT'S TRUE.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS I FOUND
ALSO INTERESTING WAS THE FACT
THEY CRITICIZED THE STRUCTURE OF
THE COURT, SAYING THERE WAS A
LOT OF CONFLICT OF INTEREST,
THAT PEOPLE THAT WERE SUPPOSE TO
BE HAVING THESE CHILDREN'S BEST
INTERESTS IN MIND WERE HAVING
COMPETING INTERESTS AND PAID BY
THE SAME PEOPLE WHO WERE NOW
THEIR ADVERSARIES.
THE IDEA THAT EVEN THE PEOPLE
WHO WERE SUPPOSED TO BE
PROTECTING THESE KIDS' RIGHTS
HAD A CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND
HAD TO ANSWER TO THE SAME PEOPLE
THEY WERE ADVERSARIES AGAINST.
>> Sreenivasan: 394 CASES A
YEAR.
AT THAT KIND OF VOLUME, YOU
CAN'T MOUNT A VERY SPIRITED
DEFENSE AND IT LOOKS LIKE THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE FOUND LOTS
OF CASE WHERE'S THERE WAS ALMOST
NO PUSH-BACK AT ALL.
>> YES, AND WHEN I WAS READING
THAT REPORT, ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT STRUCK ME, YOU TALKED ABOUT
THE NUMBERS FOR BLACK CHILDREN,
AND I TALKED TO SOME EXPERTS WHO
WERE TALKING ABOUT THE FACT THAT
REALLY THERE WAS AN INHERENT
BIAS GOING ON HERE, TOO, THE
IDEA THAT YOU HAD, OBVIOUSLY,
OVERWHELMED PUBLIC DEFENDERS BUT
YOU ALSO HAD BLACK KIDS WHO WERE
BEING DETAINED, NOT ONLY MORE
BEFORE THE TRIAL BUT ALSO AFTER
THEY GAVE A-- SOME OF A GUILTY
PLEA IN FAMILY COURT OR IF THEY
ALSO VIOLATED THEIR PROBATION
THAT THEY WERE ALSO MORE LIKELY
TO BE DETAINED.
YOU WOULD INNING THIS CASE THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE IS REALLY
SAYING THIS FAMILY COURT REALLY
TREATED BLACK CHILDREN HARSHER
AND REALLY TREATED THEM AND
REALLY TREATED THEM IN THE WAY
THAT VIOLATED THEIR
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS.
SO I THINK THAT WAS REALLY
IMPORTANT TO ME WHEN I WAS
READING IT.
>> Sreenivasan: AND SOMETHING
ALSO INTERESTING IS THE FAMILY
COURT DIDN'T SEEM TO COOPERATE
VERY MUCH WITH THE D.O.J.
THEY ONLY ALLOWED THEM TO WATCH
A LIMITED AMOUNT OF TIME IN THE
SESSION, BUT ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT THE REPORT MENTIONED WAS
THAT THE JUDGE WOULD BASICALLY
RATTLE OFF A LOT OF LEGAL
JARGON, AND THE KIDS WOULD JUST
BE SAYING, "YES, SIR, YSIR, YES,
SIR" WITHOUT UNDERSTANDING WHAT
THEY WERE GIVING UP.
>> WHEN I READ THAT, I THOUGHT
IF YOU THINK ABOUT SOMEONE WHO
IS IN FAMILY COURT, YOU THINK
ABOUT A CHILD WHO IS REALLY IN
NEED, WHO IS REALLY PROBABLY IN
A CRIES MOMENT THEIR LIFE,
SOMEONE WHO IS MAYBE 13 OR 14
YEARS OLD, LISTENING TO ALL THIS
LEGAL JARGON, EVEN AS A REPORTER
SOMETIMES IT'S HARD TO FOLLOW
WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE COURTROOM
SO IMAGINE BEING 14 OR 15
LISTENING TO A JUDGE IN A VERY
INTIMIDATING SETTING REALLY
TALKING ABOUT YOUR FUTURE AND
YOU JUST SAYING, "YES, SIR, YES,
SIR," TO GET THROUGH THE MOMENT.
IT'S REALLY HEARTBREAKING WHEN
YOU THINK OF THAT BECAUSE YOU
CAN IMAGINE THAT SCENE IN YOUR
HEAD AND THINK THESE ARE REALLY
CHILDREN WHO NEEDED THE HELP OF
THIS COURT AND DIDN'T GET IT.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS ISN'T THE
ONLY PLACE THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE HAS LOOKED AT, RIGHT?
>> THIS ISN'T THE ONLY PLACE.
FROM MY UNDERSTANDING, SHELBY
COUNTY, WHICH INCLUDES MEMPHIS,
THEY ACTUALLY HAD AN
INVESTIGATION AGAINST THEM THAT
WAS CLOSED AND THAT WAS ONE OF
THE THINGS.
THEY'RE ALSO LOOKING AT DALLAS
COUNTY, TEXAS, AND FOR VERY
SIMILAR VIOLATIONS IN LOOKING
INTO HOW THEY TREAT THEIR
YOUTHS.
THIS IS NOT JUST FOCUSED ON THE
ST. LOUIS AREA.
THEY'RE ALSO LOOKING AT OTHER
COUNTIES.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
YAMICHE ALCINDOR, OF "USA
TODAY," THANKS SO MUCH.
"SUPER PACS,"
THOSE POLITICAL ACTION
COMMITTEES WITH NO LIMITS ON
CONTRIBUTIONS, HAVE RAISED $245
MILLION FOR PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES IN THE FIRST SIX
MONTHS OF THIS YEAR, AND AT
LEAST 58 INDIVIDUALS HAVE
DONATED $1 MILLION OR MORE TO
SUPER-PACS.
SUPER-PACS SUPPORTING REPUBLICAN
JEB BUSH RAISED THE MOST, $108
MILLION.
GROUPS BACKING TEXAS SENATOR TED
CRUZ RAISED $38 MILLION; AND
FLORIDA SENATOR MARCO RUBIO, $33
MILLION.
SUPER-PACS FOR WISCONSIN
GOVERNOR SCOTT WALKER RAISED $26
MILLION WHILE GROUPS SUPPORTING
REPUBLICANS CHRIS CHRISTIE, RICK
PERRY AND JOHN KASICH ALL RAISED
MORE THAN $10 MILLION.
ON THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE, A SUPER-
PAC SUPPORTING HILLARY CLINTON
RAISED $16 MILLION.
IN CALIFORNIA, MORE THAN 8,000
FIREFIGHTERS ARE BATTLING TWO
DOZEN WILDFIRES, COVERING TENS
OF THOUSANDS OF ACRES UP AND
DOWN THE STATE.
THE BIGGEST BLAZE IS BURNING
NEAR LOWER LAKE, IN NORTHERN
CALIFORNIA.
IT HAS SCORCHED MORE THAN 22,000
ACRES AND IS ONLY 5% CONTAINED.
ONE FIREFIGHTER FROM SOUTH
DAKOTA DIED FIGHTING FLAMES IN
THE MODOC NATIONAL FOREST, IN
THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF THE
STATE.
DROUGHT, LIGHTNING STRIKES AND
STRONG WINDS ARE BLAMED FOR THE
FIRES.
CALIFORNIA GOVERNOR JERRY BROWN
DECLARED A STATE OF EMERGENCY
YESTERDAY.
TAKE AN IN-DEPTH LOOK AT HOW
DONORS WHO GIVE $1 MILLION OR
MORE ARE ALREADY INFLUENCING THE
2016 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
VISIT US ONLINE AT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: IN TONIGHT'S
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, OUR SECOND
REPORT ON THE SO-CALLED "SHARING
ECONOMY," HOW TECHNOLOGY IS
CHANGING THE WAY WE DO BUSINESS
FOR OURSELVES.
LAST WEEKEND, WE TOOK A LOOK AT
HOW SERVICES LIKE UBER AND
INSTACART ARE CHALLENGING THE
DEFINITION OF AN EMPLOYEE AND AN
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR.
TONIGHT, WE LOOK AT HOW PRIVATE
HOMES AND APARTMENTS ARE
BECOMING A SHARED RESOURCE.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL COMPANIES LIKE
AIRBNB AND PEOPLE THAT USE THEM
ARE CHALLENGING THE TRADITIONAL
DEFINITION OF A HOTEL.
AND IN CITIES AROUND THE
COUNTRY, PUBLIC OFFICIALS ARE
QUESTIONING WHETHER RENTING OUT
YOUR HOME SHOULD EVEN BE LEGAL.
SO, IT'S A TWO-BEDROOM?
>> YEAH, TWO BEDROOMS.
>> Sreenivasan: THREE YEARS AGO,
JENNIFER AND HER HUSBAND BEGAN
LISTING THEIR TWO-BEDROOM
BROOKLYN APARTMENT ON WHAT WAS
THEN AN UP AND COMING WEB SITE,
AIRBNB.
>> MY HUSBAND TRAVELS A LOT FOR
WORK.
WE ALSO HAVE FAMILY ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY.
AND SO, WHEN WE KNEW WE WERE
GOING AWAY, I WOULD JUST MAKE
THE APARTMENT AVAILABLE.
WE HAVE A SPACE THAT SLEEPS SIX,
SO PEOPLE ALMOST ALWAYS RENTED
IT.
IT JUST KEPT GOING WELL, AND WE
KEPT HAVING ALL THESE GOOD
EXPERIENCES.
>> Sreenivasan: AIRBNB CONNECTS
HOSTS WHO WANT TO SHARE THEIR
HOMES WITH GUESTS WHO ARE
LOOKING FOR A PLACE TO STAY
SHORT TERM, TYPICALLY FOR A
WEEKEND OR A VACATION.
AIRBNB LISTS THE PROPERTY,
CONNECTS THE TWO PARTIES AND
COLLECTS A BOOKING FEE.
JENNIFER-- SHE DID NOT WANT US
TO USE HER LAST NAME-- CHARGES
UP TO $200 A NIGHT TO RENT HER
PLACE WHEN SHE AND HER FAMILY
GO AWAY UP TO A WEEK EVERY
MONTH.
>> I THINK IT'S GREAT FOR THE
LOCAL COMMUNITIES.
I CAN KIND OF DIRECT PEOPLE TO
MY FAVORITE RESTAURANTS IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I'M ABLE TO HELP PEOPLE COME IN
HERE AND REALLY EXPERIENCE WHAT
THE CITY HAS TO OFFER, YOU KNOW.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT SOUNDS LIKE
A WIN-WIN SITUATION FOR JENNIFER
AND HER GUESTS IS NOT SO SIMPLE.
WHAT JENNIFER IS DOING MAY BE
ILLEGAL IN NEW YORK CITY, WHERE
CITY AND STATE LAWS RESTRICT
SHORT-TERM RENTALS.
THE SHORT-TERM HOME RENTAL
INDUSTRY IS BOOMING.
PLATFORMS LIKE HOMEAWAY,
FLIPKEY, VRBO ARE POPULAR, AND
AIRBNB HAS EMERGED AS THE GIANT
IN THIS, ESPECIALLY IN CITIES.
AIRBNB NOW LISTS OVER ONE
MILLION ROOMS AVAILABLE IN 192
COUNTRIES.
AND NEW YORK CITY, WITH MORE
THAN 25,000 LISTINGS A NIGHT, IS
THE PLATFORM'S LARGEST U.S.
MARKET.
NEW YORK IS ALSO WHERE THE
DEBATE OVER HOW TO REGULATE
SHORT-TERM HOME RENTALS LIKE
AIRBNB IS PERHAPS MOST
CONTENTIOUS.
ACCORDING TO A REPORT BY NEW
YORK ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC
SCHNEIDERMAN LAST YEAR, NEARLY
THREE QUARTERS OF AIRBNB'S
LISTINGS BETWEEN 2010 AND 2014
WERE ESSENTIALLY "ILLEGAL
HOTELS," SHORT-TERM RENTALS THAT
VIOLATE STATE AND CITY LAWS
AGAINST RENTING OUT AN APARTMENT
FOR LESS THAN 30 DAYS UNLESS THE
OCCUPANTS ARE ALSO PRESENT.
SCHNEIDERMAN FOUND 94% OF AIRBNB
HOSTS IN NEW YORK ARE LIKE
JENNIFER AND HER HUSBAND.
THEY HAVE ONLY ONE OR POSSIBLY
TWO LISTINGS.
>> THOSE ARE ROOMS THAT WOULD
HAVE GONE TO THE HOTEL INDUSTRY
AND SHOULD HAVE GONE TO THE
HOTEL INDUSTRY GIVEN WHAT WE'VE
INVESTED IN THE CITY AND OUR
BUILDINGS.
>> Sreenivasan: VIJAY DANDAPANI
CHAIRS THE NEW YORK CITY HOTEL
ASSOCIATION AND IS PRESIDENT OF
APPLE CORE HOTELS, WHICH OWNS
FIVE IN MIDTOWN MANHATTAN,
INCLUDING THIS LA QUINTA.
HE SAYS COMPETITION FROM AIRBNB
HAS DRIVEN DOWN HIS HOTELS' ROOM
RATES.
>> RATES HAVE NOT GONE BACK UP
TO PRE-FINANCIAL CRISIS DESPITE
THE FACT THAT TOURISM HAS GONE
UP.
THAT'S BECAUSE, YOU'VE SUDDENLY
GOT 140 ROOMS, 40 OF THOSE ROOMS
BEING NOT HOTELS.
>> Sreenivasan: DANDAPANI
COMPLAINS AIRBNB AND ITS HOSTS
NOT ONLY STEAL BUSINESS, THEY
ALSO DO NOT FOLLOW THE SAME
RULES AND REGULATIONS AS HOTELS.
>> WE HAVE A FIRE COMMAND
SYSTEM, SECURITY SYSTEMS THAT
GIVE YOU PROTECTIONS FROM
INTRUDERS, AND SO ON.
THE MOMENT YOU GET INTO
CONVERTING YOUR HOUSE INTO A
HOTEL, WHICH IS DE FACTO WHAT IS
BEING DONE NOWADAYS, NONE OF
THOSE PROTECTIONS ARE THERE.
>> Sreenivasan: THEN, THERE'S
THE ISSUE OF TAXES.
AIRBNB COLLECTS A HOTEL
OCCUPANCY TAX ON BEHALF OF HOSTS
IN MANY CITIES BUT NOT NEW YORK.
CHIP CONLEY, AIRBNB'S HEAD OF
GLOBAL HOSPITALITY, SAYS THE
COMPANY IS LOOKING AT HOW TO DO
THAT.
>> THE ANNUAL TAXES THAT WE
WOULD BE PAYING WOULD BE $65
MILLION IF THE STATE AND CITY OF
NEW YORK WOULD ALLOW US TO BE A
COLLECTOR OF TAXES AND A
REMITTER OF TAXES.
CURRENTLY, THEY ARE NOT ALLOWING
US TO DO THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: CITY OFFICIALS
COUNTER THAT ALLOWING COLLECTION
OF TAXES LEGITIMIZES ACTIVITY
THAT IS LARGELY UNLAWFUL.
>> SO, WHAT'S ODD TO US IS THAT
NEW YORK IS ACTUALLY SORT OF A
LAGGARD HERE RELATIVE TO SO MANY
OTHER COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE
U.S. WHO HAVE SAID LET'S CREATE
SENSIBLE LEGISLATION AND LET'S
MAKE SURE WE'RE ACTUALLY
COLLECTING TAXES AS WELL.
>> Sreenivasan: NEW YORK AIRBNB
HOSTS JORDAN AND JOSHUA, WHO
ALSO PREFER US NOT TO USE THEIR
LAST NAMES, SAY THEY'D BE
WILLING TO PAY A HOTEL TAX FOR
RENTING OUT THEIR TWO-BEDROOM
APARTMENT.
THEY ALREADY DECLARE THE INCOME,
ABOUT A $180 A NIGHT.
>> IF AIRBNB COLLECTED THE TAX
RIGHT WHEN IT WAS BOOKED, THEN
WE WOULDN'T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
IT.
>> Sreenivasan: THE HOTEL
INDUSTRY IS NOT THE ONLY GROUP
FIGHTING AIRBNB.
SO ARE RESIDENTS OF APARTMENT
BUILDINGS WHERE NEIGHBORS'
APARTMENTS ARE RENTED OUT TO
TOTAL STRANGERS.
NEW YORK STATE SENATOR LIZ
KRUEGER REPRESENTS THE EAST SIDE
OF MANHATTAN.
>> CONSTITUENTS STARTED COMING
TO ME AND SAYING, "THERE'S
SOMETHING STRANGE GOING ON IN MY
BUILDING.
THE APARTMENTS SEEM TO BE BEING
RENTED OUT ON A NIGHTLY BASIS.
THERE ARE GROUPS OF TOURISTS
WANDERING IN AND OUT WITH
LUGGAGE, WITH KEYS TO THE
BUILDINGS."
>> Sreenivasan: KRUEGER, WHO HAS
OFTEN BEEN DUBBED AIRBNB'S
DOUBTER IN CHIEF, WAS THE
PRIMARY SPONSOR OF THE 2010
STATE LAW THAT EFFECTIVELY
BANNED SHORT-TERM APARTMENT
RENTALS IN NEW YORK CITY.
>> THEY ENCOURAGE ILLEGAL
ACTIVITY.
THEY DON'T HAVE TO, BUT THEY
CHOOSE TO DO SO AS A BUSINESS
MODEL.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THE SHORT-
TERM RENTAL ACTIVITY THAT
TROUBLES OFFICIALS LIKE KRUEGER
AND ATTORNEY GENERAL
SCHNEIDERMAN MOST IS WHAT THEY
CALL "COMMERCIAL USERS" OF
AIRBNB AND SIMILAR WEB SITES.
>> PEOPLE BECOMING ENTREPRENEURS
AND RENTING ONE TO 100
APARTMENTS, CLAIMING THAT
THEY'RE THEIR OWN HOMES, AND
TURNING THEM INTO ONGOING
ILLEGAL HOTEL ARRANGEMENTS.
>> Sreenivasan: IN FACT, THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL'S REPORT FOUND
WHILE ONLY 6% OF AIRBNB HOSTS
ADVERTISE THREE OR MORE
LISTINGS, THEY ACCOUNT FOR MORE
THAN A THIRD OF AIRBNB'S
BUSINESS IN NEW YORK.
THE REPORT ALSO FOUND THOUSANDS
OF AIRBNB LISTINGS WERE RENTED
FOR THREE MONTHS OR MORE OF THE
YEAR.
NEW YORK ASSEMBLYWOMAN LINDA
ROSENTHAL WENT ON WHAT SHE TERMS
AN UNDERCOVER STING OPERATION
THIS SPRING TO FIND THESE
COMMERCIAL USERS.
>> DO YOU LIVE HERE?
YOU DON'T LIVE HERE?
OH, OKAY.
>> Sreenivasan: IN ONE OF THE
VIDEOS THAT SHE RELEASED TO THE
PRESS, ROSENTHAL IS SEEN
VISITING A HOST WHO SHE SAYS
WAS RENTING SEVEN APARTMENTS IN
A BUILDING, NONE OF WHICH HE
LIVED IN.
>> BUT, IN CASE ANYBODY ASKS
SOMETHING, YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT
AIRBNB IS.
>> OH, OKAY.
>> THAT'S WHY AIRBNB ALWAYS
CALLS YOU GUESTS.
>> Sreenivasan: AIRBNB HAS TAKEN
STEPS TO REMOVE USERS WHO HAVE A
LARGE NUMBER OF LISTINGS.
>> WE, LIKE THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL, SUPPORT THE IDEA OF
CRACKING DOWN ON ILLEGAL HOTELS
AND UNSCRUPULOUS LANDLORDS.
IN THE SPRING, WE TOOK DOWN
2,000 LISTINGS, WHAT WE WERE
CALLING "BAD ACTORS" WHO WE JUST
FELT SHOULDN'T BE USING THE
SITE.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT STATE
SENATOR KRUEGER ARGUES AIRBNB IS
ENTICING LANDLORDS LIKE THE ONE
IN THE UNDERCOVER VIDEO TO
CONVERT APARTMENTS INTO SHORT-
TERM RENTALS, WHICH CAN BE MORE
PROFITABLE THAN RENTING THEM TO
LONG-TERM RESIDENTS.
AND THAT, KRUEGER SAYS, MAKES IT
HARDER FOR NEW YORKERS TO FIND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN A CITY
WHERE THE HOUSING MARKET IS
ALREADY TIGHT.
>> AIRBNB HAS TOLD ME, "IF YOU
COULD JUST DO ONE OR TWO, IT
WOULD BE OKAY."
AND THE ANSWER IS NO, BECAUSE IF
10,000 PEOPLE DECIDE TO RENT OUT
TWO APARTMENTS FULL-TIME, THAT'S
20,000 UNITS OFF THE MARKET.
>> Sreenivasan: SO, WE'RE
SITTING IN AN ILLEGAL HOTEL
ROOM, ACCORDING TO THE STATE
SENATOR.
>> (LAUGHS)
YES.
I HAVE A DIFFERENCE OF OPINION
WITH HER, FOR SURE.
IT'S REALLY HARD FOR ME TO FEEL
LIKE MY HOME IS A HOTEL.
I FEEL LIKE SOMEONE WHO IS
WELCOMING A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
BECOME FRIENDS.
I MEAN, I THINK THE KEY IS JUST
MAKING SURE THAT IT'S PEOPLE
ARE... IT'S SOMETHING THAT
PEOPLE ARE DOING WITH THEIR
PRIMARY HOME.
FINANCIALLY, IT REALLY HELPS MY
FAMILY.
RENTS HERE HAVE SKYROCKETED IN
THE TEN YEARS THAT WE'VE BEEN
HERE.
>> Sreenivasan: AIRBNB ARGUES IT
HELPS RESIDENTS STAY IN THEIR
HOMES BY ALLOWING THEM TO EARN
SUPPLEMENTAL INCOME TO PAY THEIR
RENT OR MORTGAGE.
>> IT AFFORDS ME AS AN ARTIST TO
BE AN ARTIST.
I USE PART OF THIS INCOME TO
SURVIVE ON.
>> Sreenivasan: JOSHUA ALSO SAYS
THAT THE AIRBNB SYSTEM ALLOWS
THEM TO BE VERY CHOOSY ABOUT WHO
THEY LET STAY IN THEIR HOME AND
WHEN.
>> IT'S UP TO US AS HOSTS WHAT
WE WANT TO DO.
I SAY WE DENY EIGHT OUT OF TEN
PEOPLE THAT ASK US TO STAY HERE,
AND WE GET A LOT OF REQUESTS.
A LOT.
SO, THAT'S HOW I REGULATE IT.
THE QUESTION THAT PEOPLE ASK IS,
DO WE FEEL SAFE HAVING PEOPLE WE
DON'T KNOW IN OUR HOME?
AND THE ANSWER IS YES.
>> Sreenivasan: ARUN
SUNDARARAJAN IS A BUSINESS
PROFESSOR AT NEW YORK
UNIVERSITY.
HE SAYS CITIES LIKE NEW YORK
SHOULD PARTNER WITH COMPANIES
LIKE AIRBNB AND RESIDENTS TO
FORGE NEW WAYS OF REGULATING THE
ACTIVITY ON THOSE PLATFORMS.
WHY IS THE AIRBNB MODEL SO
DIFFERENT THAN THE MODEL FOR
LODGING THAT WE'VE HAD ALL THE
RULES AND REGULATIONS AROUND SO
FAR?
>> THE FUNDAMENTAL INNOVATION IS
IN TAPPING INTO UNDERUTILIZED
CAPACITY-- REPURPOSING WHAT USED
TO BE RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE
AND SORT OF CONVERTING IT INTO A
NEW FORM OF MIXED-USE REAL
ESTATE WHERE FOR SOME OF THE
TIME IT IS SHORT-TERM
ACCOMMODATION AND FOR THE REST
OF THE TIME IT'S RESIDENTIAL.
>> Sreenivasan: CITIES ACROSS
THE COUNTRY ARE GRAPPLING WITH
THESE QUESTIONS.
LIKE NEW YORK, SANTA MONICA
BANNED SHORT-TERM RENTALS OF
ENTIRE HOMES WHEN THE HOST IS
NOT PRESENT AND ADDITIONALLY
IMPOSES A 14% TAX WHEN A HOST
RENTS OUT A ROOM IN HIS HOUSE.
OTHER CITIES HAVE RECENTLY
FORGED A MIDDLE GROUND.
SAN FRANCISCO RESIDENTS ARE
PERMITTED TO RENT OUT HOMES A
MAXIMUM OF 90 DAYS A YEAR.
IN PHILADELPHIA, THE MAXIMUM IS
180 DAYS, AND HOSTS MUST PAY AN
8.5% HOTEL TAX TO THE CITY.
>> I THINK THAT THERE'S A
GROWING RECOGNITION AMONG CITIES
THAT THIS KIND OF SHARING
ECONOMY ACTIVITY CAN BE GOOD FOR
A CITY.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT FOR NOW, NEW
YORK CITY IS CRACKING DOWN.
IT HAS EXPANDED THE OFFICE
TASKED WITH INVESTIGATING
COMPLAINTS OF ILLEGAL HOTELS AND
IS PROPOSING HIGHER FINES FOR
VIOLATORS.
>> Sreenivasan: FACEBOOK IS
OFFERING NEW TOOLS FOR POLITICAL
CANDIDATES, AND YOUR PERSONAL
ACCOUNT COULD BE USED IN THE
PROCESS.
FOR THE FIRST TIME, FACEBOOK IS
ALLOWING CAMPAIGNS TO TRACK
USERS' POLITICAL COMMENTS AND"
LIKES" TO CREATE A MASTER LIST
OF TARGET VOTERS AND POTENTIAL
DONORS.
FACEBOOK HAS 189 MILLION MONTHLY
USERS IN THE UNITED STATES.
TO DISCUSS THE IMPLICATIONS OF
THIS IS "NEW YORK TIMES"
REPORTER ASHLEY PARKER.
SO WHAT CAN THEY DO BESIDES THAT
ONE FEATURE NOW THAT THEY
COULDN'T DO FOUR YEARS AGO.
>> THERE'S A TON THEY CAN DO.
ONE OF THE BIGGEST THINGS IS NOW
FACEBOOK ALLOWS CAMPAIGNS TO
UPLOAD THEIR VOTER FILE, WHICH
IS THE THE BEST OF BASICALLY
VOTERS THEY HOPE TO TARGET AND
TURN OUT TO VOTE, TO FACEBOOK
SO, THEY CAN REACH THEM THERE.
>> Sreenivasan: SO LET'S WALK
THROUGH THAT.
I HAND IN AN E-MAIL ADDRESS IF I
GO TO A POLITICAL EVENT TO A
PARTICULAR SPEECH, RIGHT.
AND THEN WHAT IS IT THE CAMPAIGN
DO WITH THAT?
>> NOT ONLY THAT YOU HAND IN AN
E-MAIL ADDRESS OR THE CAMPAIGN
WILL HAVE A LITTLE BIT OF CODE
ON THEIR WEB SITE WHERE THEY
TRACK YOU, AND THEY CAN SEE WHEN
YOU CAME TO THEIR WEB SITE YOU
CLICKED THE DONATION PAGE AND
MAYBE GAVE A DONATION OR MAYBE
YOU SORT OF LEARNED A BIT MORE
ABOUT THE CANDIDATE AND VISITED
THE CANDIDATE'S ENERGY PAGE SO
THEY KNOW YOU'RE INTERESTED IN
ENERGY.
SO THEY HAVE YOUR E-MAIL
ADDRESS.
THEY HAVE THIS OTHER INFORMATION
ABOUT YOU AND THEN THEY CAN
LITERALLY SORT OF FOLLOW YOU
OVER TO FACEBOOK AND THEY CAN
KNOW THAT YOU, SPECIFIC USER WHO
HAS THIS E-MAIL ADDRESS AND WHO
CARES ABOUT ENERGY IS ALSO ON
FACEBOOK, AND THEY CAN ALSO THEN
OVERLAY FACEBOOK DATA.
SO MAYBE THEY KNOW IN ADDITION
TO THOSE THINGS, YOU WATCH FOX
NEWS A LOT AND YOU WENT TO A
CERTAIN COLLEGE AND YOU LIVE IN
A CERTAIN STATE LIKE IOWA OR NEW
HAMPSHIRE, AND THEN THEY CAN
TARGET YOU WITH A VERY SPECIFIC
AD KNOWING THAT YOU'RE LIKELY AN
IOWA CAUCUS-GOER WHO IS
INTERESTED IN ENERGY AND WATCHES
FOX NEWS AND IS FRIEND WITH
THESE PEOPLE AND YOU GET THIS AD
IN YOUR STREAM AND IT'S DIRECTLY
TO YOU AND YOUR INTERESTS.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS IS A BIG
SHIFT.
IT USED TO BE ADVERTISING WAS
ABOUT REACHING MOST AMOUNT OF
PEOPLE POSSIBLE.
NOW WE DON'T REALLY CARE TO
REACH THE MOST.
WE JUST WANT TO REACH THE ONES
WHO COULD TURN INTO VOTERS FOR
US.
>> EXACTLY.
AS FACEBOOK SAYS IT'S ABOUT
REACHING THE RIGHT PEOPLE IN THE
RIGHT PLACE WITH THE RIGHT
MESSAGE.
>> Sreenivasan: AND IF YOU'RE
IN A HOUSEHOLD, REALLY, THERE
ARE MULTIPLE FACEBOOK ACCOUNTS
THAT COULD BE USING THE SAME
COMPUTER, SO I'M IMAGINING THEY
COULD TARGET WITH DIFFERENT
KINDS OF ADS OR DIFFERENT PEOPLE
COULD BE TARGETING YOU.
>> YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
AND ANOTHER INNOVATION IN
ADDITION TO THE TARGETING IS
FACEBOOK HAS REALLY IMPROVED
THEIR VIDEO FEATURE.
THEY SORT OF LAUNCHED A NEW
VIDEO FEATURE LAST YEAR, AND
THEY HAD ABOUT A BILLION VIEWS
OF VIDEO PER DAY, AND NOW LESS
THAN A YEAR LATER, THEY HAVE 4
BILLION VIEWS.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT THAT
DOES IS THEIR VIDEO NOW SORT OF
STARTS AUTO PLAYING.
SO WHEN YOU'RE SCROLLING THROUGH
YOUR FEED, WHETHER YOU CLICK ON
A VIDEO OR NOT, A FACEBOOK VIDEO
WILL LITERALLY JUST START TO
PLAY.
AND SO FACEBOOK IS SAYING THIS
IS A BIG ADVANTAGE FOR THE
CAMPAIGNS BECAUSE PEOPLE WILL
SEE THESE VIDEOS AND THEY MIGHT
NOT HAVE CLICKED ON THEM, BUT
MAYBE THE VIDEO CAPTURES THEIR
ATTENTION AND THEY STOP AND
WATCH.
>> Sreenivasan: SHORT OF NOT
USING FACEBOOK WHAT IS END
USERS' PRIVACY OPTIONS IF I
DON'T WANT TO BE INUNDATED WITH
POLITICAL ADS ON MY PHONE?
>> IT'S TOUGH.
FACEBOOK HAS VARIOUS PRIVACY
SETTINGS WHICH USERS CAN CONTROL
BUT AT A CERTAIN POINT I THINK
SOME USERS MAY NOT EVEN REALIZE
HOW MUCH CAMPAIGNS AND FACEBOOK
TOGETHER KNOW ABOUT THEM.
IF I'M A VISITOR AND VISITING
SCOTT WALKER'S WEB SITE, I DON'T
NECESSARILY KNOW THAT SCOTT
WALKER'S CAMPAIGN HAS EMBEDDED A
LITTLE BIT OF CODE THAT WILL LET
THEM TRACK ME WHEN I GO TO
FACEBOOK.
I MIGHT NOT KNOW TO GO INTO MY
PRIVACY SETTINGS TO CHANGE
SOMETHING BECAUSE I HAVE NO IDEA
I'M BEING TRACKED AT THE LEVEL
I'M BEING TRACKED.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
ASHLEY PARKER FROM THE "NEW YORK
TIMES," THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO
"VIEWERS LIKE YOU," YOU'RE
CHANCE TO COMMENT ON OUR WORK.
HERE'S SOME OF WHAT YOU HAD TO
SAY ABOUT LAST WEEK'S STORY
ON COMPANIES LIKE UBER AND
INSTACART, AND HOW THE
DEFINITION OF "EMPLOYEE" IS
CHANGING IN THE SHARING ECONOMY.
THERE WAS THIS FROM UBER DRIVER
STEVEN SIMPSON-BLACK:
"I'VE WORKED INDEPENDENT
CONTRACTOR-TYPE JOBS MY ENTIRE
LIFE-- NEWSPAPER DELIVERY,
JANITORIAL WORK, ETC.
I PAY FULL TAXES.
I CAN SAY I MAKE MORE MONEY PER
HOUR WORKING FOR MYSELF THAN I
WOULD MAKING MINIMUM WAGE
ELSEWHERE.
STAY OUT OF MY BUSINESS, AND
I'LL STAY OUT OF YOURS."
AND FROM ELIAS RACHID:
"LEAVE THESE COMPANIES ALONE.
IF PEOPLE DON'T WANT TO WORK FOR
THEM, THEY DON'T HAVE TO."
COLORADO NATIVE NOTED:
"MY GUT TELLS ME THAT BECAUSE
UBER AND OTHER COMPANIES LIKE
THEM ARE DISRUPTIVE, THE
TRADITIONAL COMPANIES IN THEIR
INDUSTRY DON'T LIKE THEM;
TRADITION THAT DIDN'T BECOME
TRADITION UNTIL THE AUTOMOBILE--
A DISRUPTIVE FORCE-- FORCED OUT
THE HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGE FROM
THE LIVERY BUSINESS.
SO GOES PROGRESS."
MANY OF YOUR COMMENTS WERE LIKE
THIS FROM JOHN MICHAEL HUTTON:
"UBER DRIVERS SHOULD HAVE TO
COMPLY WITH THE SAME RULES AND
REGULATIONS THAT CAB DRIVERS
MUST.
IF IT LOOKS LIKE A DUCK AND
QUACKS LIKE A DUCK, IT'S A
DUCK."
AND THIS, FROM WES MONTGOMERY:
"UBER HANDLES THE PAYMENT AND
SPECIFIES WHAT PAYMENT METHODS
ARE AVAILABLE.
UBER IS A CAR SERVICE.
DRIVERS ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF
THEIR BUSINESS MODEL.
THESE FACTS POINT STRONGLY TO AN
EMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIP
REGARDLESS OF WHO OWNS THE CAR
OR WHETHER THEY SET THEIR OWN
HOURS AND CHOOSE WHICH FARES TO
ACCEPT."
KATHLEEN ANDERSON ADDED:
"I DO NOT UNDERSTAND WHY THEY
ARE NOT SUBJECT TO THE SAME
RULES AND REGS AS TAXI DRIVERS.
THEY ARE SELLING THE SAME
SERVICE.
CAN SOMEONE EXPLAIN THAT?"
AND FINALLY THERE WAS THIS FROM
TRUSTKNOW1:
"I MIGHT BE OLD FASHIONED, BUT
I'LL DO MY OWN SHOPPING AND
STICK WITH A TRADITIONAL TAXI
SERVICE."
AS ALWAYS, WE WELCOME YOUR
COMMENTS AT
www.pbs.org/newshour, ON OUR
FACEBOOK PAGE OR TWEET US AT
NEWSHOUR.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY
TONIGHT, ACTIVISTS WITH THE
N.A.A.C.P. HAVE BEGUN AN
860-MILE JOURNEY FOR JUSTICE.
THE 46-DAY MARCH BEGAN TODAY IN
SELMA, ALABAMA, GOES THROUGH
FIVE SOUTHERN STATES AND ENDS
MID-SEPTEMBER IN WASHINGTON,
D.C.
THE MARCH COINCIDES WITH NEXT
WEEK'S 50th ANNIVERSARY OF
THE SIGNING OF THE VOTING RIGHT
ACT.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION IS
ASKING THE INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC
COMMITTEE TO TEST THE WATER OFFS
RIO DE JANEIRO BEFORE NEXT
AUGUST.
BOATING AND OPEN WATER SWIMMING
VENUES CONTAIN DANGEROUSLY HIGH
LEVELS OF BACTERIA AND VIRUSES
ACCORDING TO AN ANALYSIS
CONDUCTED BY THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS.
THE CAUSE?
RAW SEWAGE.
THAT'S ALL FOR TONIGHT.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
SEE YOU HERE TOMORROW NIGHT.